swagger/README.md, before:

Swagger
=======

We make heavy use of [Swagger](http://swagger.io/) at GasBuddy for both external and internal service interface definition.
Wherever possible, we should make the verbs and operational model follow [REST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer)
best practices.

URLs
====
URLs should be lower case, and multiple words in a path fragment should be separate with dashes.
The first path component of all APIs should be a version identifer, such as '/1.0'. Entities
described in the API are typically plural when a collection is involved, such as **/accounts/{account_id}**.

Definitions
=======
Data type definitions should be UpperCamelCase and properties inside them should be 
lower snake_case. For example:

```
PointOfInterest:
  type: object
  properties:
    color_of_door:
      type: string
```

Paging
======
Situations that may return many results should follow a common paging model wherever possible.

In a request:
```
        - name: page_size
          in: query
          description: The maximum number of results to return in one call
          default: (choose a value)
          required: false
          type: integer
          format: int32
        - name: page
          in: query
          description: The 0-based index of the page of results to retrieve (based on pageSize)
          required: false
          type: integer
          format: int32
```

In a response:
```
      page:
        type: integer
        format: int32
        description: The 0-based index of this page of results
      page_size:
        type: integer
        format: int32
        description: The number of results in a single page
      count:
        type: integer
        format: int32
        description: The total number of results (not pages) available, if known      
```

Next and previous page links are nice, but aren't always possible (e.g. in POSTs without extra work).
If you can't provide next and previous links AND can't provide a count, you will need some
boolean or similar to indicate whether there are additional results or not...

Boilerplate
===========
```
swagger: '2.0'
info:
  version: '1.0'
  title: GasBuddy _something_ API
  description: Explain your purpose for existence
basePath: "/1.0"
consumes:
  - application/json
produces:
  - application/json
schemes:
  - http
  - https
paths:
definitions:
```

Commit message:

Id guidance, remove int32 format for brevity

swagger/README.md, after:

Swagger
=======

We make heavy use of [Swagger](http://swagger.io/) at GasBuddy for both external and internal service interface definition.
Wherever possible, we should make the verbs and operational model follow [REST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer)
best practices.

URLs
====
URLs should be lower case, and multiple words in a path fragment should be separate with dashes.
The first path component of all APIs should be a version identifer, such as '/1.0'. Entities
described in the API are typically plural when a collection is involved, such as **/accounts/{account_id}**.

Definitions
=======
Data type definitions should be UpperCamelCase and properties inside them should be 
lower snake_case. For example:

```
PointOfInterest:
  type: object
  properties:
    color_of_door:
      type: string
```

Identifiers
===========
Unique ids in all APIs should be treated as strings. Generally, we should not expose raw numeric identifiers to API consumers. This avoids people picking poor data types for storage and limits information disclosure such as the order
of entity creation or total size of the collection.

Paging
======
Situations that may return many results should follow a common paging model wherever possible.

In a request:
```
        - name: page_size
          in: query
          description: The maximum number of results to return in one call
          default: (choose a value)
          required: false
          type: integer
        - name: page
          in: query
          description: The 0-based index of the page of results to retrieve (based on pageSize)
          required: false
          type: integer
```

In a response:
```
      page:
        type: integer
        description: The 0-based index of this page of results
      page_size:
        type: integer
        description: The number of results in a single page
      count:
        type: integer
        description: The total number of results (not pages) available, if known      
```

Next and previous page links are nice, but aren't always possible (e.g. in POSTs without extra work).
If you can't provide next and previous links AND can't provide a count, you will need some
boolean or similar to indicate whether there are additional results or not...

Boilerplate
===========
```
swagger: '2.0'
info:
  version: '1.0'
  title: GasBuddy _something_ API
  description: Explain your purpose for existence
basePath: "/1.0"
consumes:
  - application/json
produces:
  - application/json
schemes:
  - http
  - https
paths:
definitions:
```
